# Opaque handle

## Subject
Whether to use and opaque pointer (handle) pattern for the linebot domain module.

## Pros:
* Very nice nice module encapsulation
* Internals changes might not necessarly break the contract with clients
* Along with strong unit tests base the refactoring is nothing but joy

## Cons:
* Since dynamic memory allocation needs to be avoided, there is a need to implement fixed size object pools as well
* Because of above the memory isn't actually saved, since there will be no multiple objects in the pools:
    * context - 1 instance
    * position - 1 instance
    * motion - 1 instance
    * coords - 2 instances
* Need for NULL-check API public functions

## Decision: 
Opaque handle pattern will be used in linebot domain module.

## Reasoning:
* Pseudo-generic object pools implementation is great learning experiance and et’s not forget that this project is primarily focused on learning. Moreover this kind of patters along with memory arenas are common in embedded world.
* Number of object instances argument is actually a good one. I came across many suggestions that this is the case when opaque pattern may not be used. On the other hand, at this moment **I value encapsulation more** and accept this tradeoff.
* NULL check will be performed at the public API functions. It is still a good practice to check the validity of input arguments from the clinet-side, null check is actually part of the validation. The public function implementation can validate the input and pass the flow to some extracted module internal functions, which actually nicely separates the responsibilities of module parts. Internal module functions may assume valid handles to avoid redundant checks in performance-sensitive paths.

## Alternatives
* **Singleton pattern**. I definitely prefer single instance than singleton due to its ability to dependency inversion, thus much better unit test experiance. Also, singletons are actually static, encapsulated global variables. Without a good reason they should be avoided in my opinion. I don't state that they are evil, in fact, the message queue is singleton in current route-runner version. But it fits the pattern - it is accessed from different layers of application and need to be same instance always.
* **Structs defined in linebot module public headers**. Yes, there is a thin line here. Defining public structs and making them immutable does the job quite well, along with documentation warnings. However event the most strict documentation does not prevent the module user from misusing it. Although now there is no linebot module client other that the application itself, but adding some NULL checks at the top implementation level along with some object pools is not that much cost.